# Classifying immune T-cell types

## Introduction
Transcriptome data typically result in large datasets containing tens of thousands of genes. The goal of analyzing transcriptome datasets are too find
a subset of genes with expression modulations that contribute to physiological change in the model organism. One such approach is gene differential
expression analysis, which uses linear regression models on each gene to identify changes in expression between biological conditions. These models
are created with the gene read counts as the dependent variable and biological condition as the independent variable. However, this approach is
overreliant on the p-value to determine if a gene is differentially expressed and suffers when biological variability is high resulting in few genes
being identified. In addition, this is computationally intensive because a model must be fit for every individual gene.

I suggest an alternative approach to identifying a subset of biological relevant genes that utilizes machine learning methods. This approach instead
fits a single machine learning model using the biological condition as the dependent variable (aka, target variable in machine learning speak) and
takes each gene and its read counts as its own independent variable (aka, feature variable). The goal of this approach is to use the transcriptome
data to make predictions/classifications on the biological condition. This uses machine learning models such as LASSO regression and ensemble methods
that inherently filter out feature variables not contributing to the prediction/classification. The resulting models will contain features/genes
that can be extracted resulting in a subset of genes significantly contributing to a biological condition.

## Dataset
To demonstrate this approach, I will be using a dataset obtained from the National Library of Medicine (NCBI) Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database
([Accession number: GSE107011](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE107011)) under an
[open-license](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/info/disclaimer.html) with no copyright restrictions. The data was generated by
[Monaco et al., 2019](https://www.cell.com/cellreports/fulltext/S2211-1247(19)30059-2?_returnURL=https%3A%2F%2Flinkinghub.elsevier.com%2Fretrieve%2Fpii%2FS2211124719300592%3Fshowall%3Dtrue#secsectitle0135)
for their paper entitled “RNA-Seq Signatures Normalized by mRNA Abundance Allow Absolute Deconvolution of Human Immune Cell Types”.

The transcriptome data contains TPM (Transcripts Per Million) normalized read counts for 127 total samples from 8 different immune cell types in 13
healthy Singaporean individuals. Cell types include B/T cells, Dendiritic Cells (DC), Natural Killer (NK) cells, granulocytes, monocytes, progenitor
cells, and Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells (PBMCs). To simplify predictions/classifications, I have grouped these samples into two immune types:
T-cells (58 samples) and non T-cells (69 samples).

## Pipeline of analysis


## Results


## Conclusion
